Openshift trials info (#418)
UKCloud/documentation: articles/openshift/oshift-trials-gs.md

---

> title: Getting Started Guide for UKCloud for OpenShift trials| UKCloud Ltd

Reviewer: Change to:
Making the most of your UKCloud for OpenShift trial

description: Provides information to get up and running with UKCloud for OpenShift trials
services: openshift
author: Mudasar Hussain

> toc_rootlink: Getting Started

Reviewer: Change to: Reference

Reviewer: There was a typo in Reference. Fixed in my commit.

toc_sub1:
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:

> toc_title: UKCloud for OpenShift

Reviewer: Making the most of your UKCloud for OpenShift trial

> toc_fullpath: Getting Started/oshift-trials-gs.md

Reviewer: Change Getting Started to Reference

Reviewer: There was a typo in Reference. Fixed in my commit

> toc_fullpath: Getting Started/oshift-trials-gs.md

Reviewer: Change file name to:
oshift-ref-trial.md

> toc_mdlink: oshift-trials-gs.md

Reviewer: Change file name here too:
oshift-ref-trial.md

> toc_mdlink: oshift-trials-gs.md

Reviewer: And don't forget to change the actual file name!

---

> # Getting Started Guide for UKCloud for OpenShift trials

Reviewer: Making the most of your UKCloud for OpenShift trial

## Overview

> Welcome to your Red Hat&trade; OpenShift on UKCloud trial. Your trial OpenShift cluster is a secure, single-tenant private deployment on UKClouds assured OpenStack cloud which avoids any noisy neighbour issues. During an OpenShift trial the OpenShift cluster is typically only connected to the internet, however connectivity to many other Government Community Networks is available in OpenShift clusters post trial phase. The purpose of an OpenShift trial is for customers to get hands on with Red Hat&trade; OpenShift container orchestration technology to see if this is the correct technology for them.

Reviewer: Suggest (asterisks/bold indicate changes - don't actually put the asterisks in):

Welcome to your *UKCloud for OpenShift* trial. Your trial OpenShift cluster is a secure, single-tenant private deployment on *UKCloud's* assured OpenStack cloud*,* which avoids any noisy neighbour issues. During an OpenShift trial the OpenShift cluster is typically only connected to the internet, however connectivity to many other Government Community Networks is available in OpenShift clusters *after the* trial phase. The purpose of an OpenShift trial is for *you* to get *hands-on experience* with Red Hat&trade; OpenShift container orchestration technology to see if this is the correct technology for *you*.

### Intended audience

> This guide is intended for developers who have signed up for a OpenShift trial with UKCloud. Developers are expected to have a good understanding of containerisation and container orchestration technologies to maximise their benefit from an OpenShift trial.

Reviewer: This article ...
an OpenShift trial

## Introduction to UKCloud for OpenShift trials

> OpenShift is a platform as a service, this means that you no longer need to worry about the underlying hardware or operating system, instead you can focus on developing, deploying, scaling and monitoring your applications in OpenShift which maximises your returns on investment both monetary and time.

Reviewer: OpenShift provides platform-as-a-service, which means that you don't need to worry about the underlying hardware or operating system. Instead, you can focus on developing, deploying, scaling and monitoring your applications in OpenShift, maximising your return on investment in terms of money and time.

> With UKCloud OpenShift you have admin access to OpenShift giving you the control you need to create, deploy and administer your cluster as you see fit.

Reviewer: UKCloud for OpenShift

> With UKCloud OpenShift you have admin access to OpenShift giving you the control you need to create, deploy and administer your cluster as you see fit.

Reviewer: Suggest:

With UKCloud for OpenShift, you have administrator access to your cluster, giving you the control you need to create, deploy and administer your environment as you see fit.

> All OpenShift deployments get a starter pack which includes the management and orchestration planes of OpenShift. These are essentially 3 Master nodes, 2 Infrastructure nodes and load balancers for the control and data planes.

Reviewer: Suggest:

All OpenShift deployments get a starter pack, which includes the OpenShift management and orchestration planes. These are essentially three master nodes, two infrastructure nodes and load balancers for the control and data planes.

Reviewer: Still refers to starter pack instead of Foundation Pack. Is this intentional? In the service definition, we refer to them as Foundation Packs. 
https://assets.digitalmarketplace.service.gov.uk/g-cloud-10/documents/92406/248991245857940-service-definition-document-2018-11-12-1732.pdf

> During a trial each cluster is also provisioned with 2 small run time packs. These are essentially 2 OpenStack VM's running RedHat atomic OS with 16GB RAM, 2vCPU's and 100GB disks each. This is also the minimum number of Runtime Packs UKCloud recommends in each OpenShift deployment in order to provide minimal resilience and enable interruption free patching. After the trial phase it is possible to deploy larger and more nodes for your cluster.

Reviewer: During a trial, each cluster is also provisioned with two small Runtime Packs. These are essentially two OpenStack VMs running Red Hat Atmoic OS with 16GB RAM, two vCPUs and 100GB disks each.

**OpenShift documentation:** [*Architecture*](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/architecture/index.html)

## GUI and CLI Access

> In order to access the OpenShift cluster GUI customers require a internet-enabled device running a HTML5 capable browser and need to be set up for access in UKClouds Portal with SSO access. Customers will also be set up with the relavent access in their OpenShift deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to access the OpenShift cluster GUI customers require a internet-enabled device running a HTML5 capable browser and need to be set up for access in the UKCloud Portal. Customers will also be set up with the relevant access in their OpenShift deployment.
```

> In order to access the OpenShift cluster GUI customers require a internet-enabled device running a HTML5 capable browser and need to be set up for access in the UKCloud Portal. Customers will also be set up with the relevant access in their OpenShift deployment.

Reviewer: To access the OpenShift cluster GUI, you need an internet-enabled device running an HTML5-capable browser. You will also be set up for access to the UKCloud Portal and given the relevant access to your OpenShift deployment.

**OpenShift documentation:** [*Web Console Walkthrough*](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/getting_started/developers_console.html)

> In addition to GUI access customers can also access OpenShift through the CLI, in order to do this customers need to have installed the OC client on their machines. 

Reviewer: In addition to GUI access, you can also access OpenShift through the CLI. To do this, you need to install the OC tool on your machines.

Reviewer: Still one reference to customers instead of you. Fixed in my commit

**OpenShift documentation:** [*Installing the OC CLI*](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/cli_reference/get_started_cli.html#installing-the-cli)

## Storage

> Each trial deployment has a block storage limit allocated to the OpenStack project of 2TB. The storage is available to the OpenShift projects customers deploy within OpenShift, customers can consume that storage by creating Persistant Storage Claims for there applications. It is good practice to use PVC's for any persistant storage requirements as any data stored within pods will be lost when clusters are patched. After trials if customers require more than 2TB of storage to be available to there clusters than customers can request this. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each trial deployment has a block storage quota of 2TB across either tier 1 or tier 2 storage. This is enforced at the OpenStack project layer. The storage is available to the projects customers create within OpenShift, customers can consume that storage by creating Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) for their applications. It is good practice to use PVC's for any persistent storage requirements as any data stored within local volumes will be lost when pods are moved from one node to another for example as a result of node evacuations during patching. Storage quotas can be increased by creating a service request in the UKCloud portal. 
```

> Each trial deployment has a block storage quota of 2TB across either tier 1 or tier 2 storage. This is enforced at the OpenStack project layer. The storage is available to the projects customers create within OpenShift, customers can consume that storage by creating Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) for their applications. It is good practice to use PVCs for any persistent storage requirements as any data stored within local volumes will be lost when pods are moved from one node to another; for example as a result of node evacuations during patching. Storage quotas can be increased by creating a service request in the UKCloud portal.

Reviewer: Tier 1 or Tier 2 storage

> Each trial deployment has a block storage quota of 2TB across either tier 1 or tier 2 storage. This is enforced at the OpenStack project layer. The storage is available to the projects customers create within OpenShift, customers can consume that storage by creating Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) for their applications. It is good practice to use PVCs for any persistent storage requirements as any data stored within local volumes will be lost when pods are moved from one node to another; for example as a result of node evacuations during patching. Storage quotas can be increased by creating a service request in the UKCloud portal.

Reviewer: This storage is available to the project's you create within OpenShift and you can consume the storage by creating Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) for your applications.

Reviewer: Ugh. I introduced an incorrect apostrophe in my suggestion. Fixed in my commit

> Each trial deployment has a block storage quota of 2TB across either tier 1 or tier 2 storage. This is enforced at the OpenStack project layer. The storage is available to the projects customers create within OpenShift, customers can consume that storage by creating Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) for their applications. It is good practice to use PVCs for any persistent storage requirements as any data stored within local volumes will be lost when pods are moved from one node to another; for example as a result of node evacuations during patching. Storage quotas can be increased by creating a service request in the UKCloud portal.

Reviewer: You can increase your storage quotas by creating a service request in the UKCloud Portal.

> Each trial deployment has a block storage quota of 2TB across either tier 1 or tier 2 storage. This is enforced at the OpenStack project layer. The storage is available to the projects customers create within OpenShift, customers can consume that storage by creating Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) for their applications. It is good practice to use PVC's for any persistent storage requirements as any data stored within local volumes will be lost when pods are moved from one node to another for example as a result of node evacuations during patching. Storage quotas can be increased by creating a service request in the UKCloud portal. 

Reviewer 3: Each trial deployment has a block storage quota of 2TB across either tier 1 or tier 2 storage. This is enforced at the OpenStack project layer. The storage is available to the projects customers create within OpenShift, customers can consume that storage by creating Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) for their applications. It is good practice to use PVC's for any persistent storage requirements as any data stored within local volumes will be lost when pods are moved from one node to another; for example as a result of node evacuations during patching. Storage quotas can be increased by creating a service request in the UKCloud portal.

> OpenShift is deployed with an internal image registry with a 60GB capacity. Customers can make use of this registry which is backed by UKClouds object storage. This does not come out of customers 2TB storage capacity, rather this is in addition to customers 2TB data limit. However UKCloud do provision ElasticSearch, FluentD and Kibana stack which uses 20GB and Hawkular Metrics backed by a Cassandra database which uses 10GB and the Prometheus Operator which uses 106GB of tier 2 storage which is taken out of the 2TB storage limit.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenShift is deployed with an internal image registry making use of UKClouds object storage service for persistence.  This includes 60GB of free storage capacity and does not come out of customers 2TB block storage capacity, rather this is in addition to customers 2TB data limit. However UKCloud do provision ElasticSearch, FluentD and Kibana stack which uses 20GB and Hawkular Metrics backed by a Cassandra database which uses 10GB and the Prometheus Operator which uses 106GB of tier 2 storage which is taken out of the 2TB storage limit.  
```

Reviewer 2: It'd be worth breaking out the individual persistent volumes and their sizes in to a list here as well, so that its clear how much each is using.

> OpenShift is deployed with an internal image registry making use of UKCloud's object storage service for persistence.  This includes 60GB of free storage capacity which does not come out of a customer's 2TB block storage capacity, rather this is in addition to the 2TB data limit. UKCloud do provision ElasticSearch, Fluentd and Kibana stack which uses 20GB, Hawkular Metrics backed by a Cassandra database which uses 10GB and the Prometheus Operator which uses 106GB of tier 2 storage (which consumes some of the 2TB storage limit).

Reviewer: ... which does not come out of your 2TB block storage capacity; rather this is in addition to the 2TB data limit.

> OpenShift is deployed with an internal image registry making use of UKClouds object storage service for persistence.  This includes 60GB of free storage capacity and does not come out of customers 2TB block storage capacity, rather this is in addition to customers 2TB data limit. However UKCloud do provision ElasticSearch, FluentD and Kibana stack which uses 20GB and Hawkular Metrics backed by a Cassandra database which uses 10GB and the Prometheus Operator which uses 106GB of tier 2 storage which is taken out of the 2TB storage limit.  

Reviewer 3: OpenShift is deployed with an internal image registry making use of UKCloud's object storage service for persistence.  This includes 60GB of free storage capacity which does not come out of a customer's 2TB block storage capacity, rather this is in addition to the 2TB data limit. UKCloud do provision ElasticSearch, Fluentd and Kibana stack which uses 20GB, Hawkular Metrics backed by a Cassandra database which uses 10GB and the Prometheus Operator which uses 106GB of tier 2 storage (which consumes some of the 2TB storage limit).

## Image Security

> Customers should take care when creating there container images to ensure the images do not run as root. Containers should be set up to run as a user which has just enough rights to run the container workload. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customers should take care when creating their container images to ensure the images do not run as root. Containers should be set up to run as a user which has just enough rights to run the container workload.
```

Reviewer 2: We should link to the security best practice guide here too... once its written!

> Customers should take care when creating their container images to ensure the images do not run as root. Containers should be set up to run as a user which has just enough rights to run the container workload.

Reviewer: You should take care when creating your container images to ensure the images do not run as `root`. You should set up containers to run as a user who has just enough rights to run the container workload.
